# Collision-Simulator
Investigate simple collision in 1D.

Inspired by the surprising connection between the number of collisions and the number π, we would like to solve a more general problem – only computationally. Consider a set of n point objects located in a gravity-free one-dimensional universe, where for i ∈ {0, . . . , n − 1}, the i’th object has mass mi ∈ R, and at time t = 0, it is located at position xi ∈ R and has velocity vi ∈ R. Assume that the objects are numbered from left to right, that is, x0 < x1 < ··· < xn−1. Given this initial conditions, the objects undergo several collisions over time and eventually move away from one another. Recall that since there is no external force involved, by Newton’s law, the total momentum of the objects is conserved during every collision. Assume that each collision is elastic, and therefore, kinetic energy is conserved too. Also, note that no two objects can ever “cross” each other, and therefore, collisions can happen only between objects i and i + 1, for some i ∈ {0, . . . , n − 2}.
We represent a collision by a tuple of a real number, an integer, and another real number. The tuple (t, i, x) represents a collision happening at time t between objects i and i + 1 at location x. Given a list of masses, a list of initial positions, and a list of initial velocities, each having the same size n, our goal is to enumerate the resulting collisions in a chronological order. Ties between collisions happening at the same time must be broken from left to right. For example for i < i′, if at time t, object i collides with i + 1 at location x, and i′ collides with i′ + 1 at location x′, then the collision (t, i, x) must precede (t, i′, x′). The input is assumed to be such that no more than 2 objects collide at the same time and the same place.
Our Python function listCollisions takes the following five arguments:
1. M: a list of positive floats, where M[i] is the mass of the i’th object,
2. x: a sorted list of floats, where x[i] is the initial position of the i’th object,
3. v: a list of floats, where v[i] is the initial velocity of the i’th object,
4. m: a non-negative integer,
5. T: a non-negative float,
and returns a list of collisions in chronological order that ends as soon as the first m collisions happen or time reaches T (whichever earlier). If the input results in fewer than m collisions and the last collision happens before time T, the list returned must contain all collisions in chronological order. Recall that we are representing each collision by a 3-tuple, as mentioned earlier. t and x values of collisions are rounded off to 4 decimal digits. Also the lists M, x, v have the same size. This function runs in time O(n + m log n).
